OCPBUGS#17399 - adding update API named certificates section (#63247)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/customize-certificates-api-update-named.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/certificates/api-server.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="customize-certificates-api-update-named_{context}"]
= Updating an API server named certificate

You can update the API server certificate to a new version by creating a new secret and updating the API server.

.Procedure

. Log in to the API as the `kubeadmin` user.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login -u kubeadmin -p <password> https://FQDN:6443
----

> . Create a secret with a new name in the openshift-config` namespace that contains the certificate chain and private key.

Reviewer: Missing the backtick before "openshift-config" (sorry, that was my fault - my suggestion was missing it)
```suggestion
. Create a secret with a new name in the `openshift-config` namespace that contains the certificate chain and private key.
```

Author: Done!

----
<1> Replace `<FQDN>` with the FQDN that the API server should provide the certificate for.
<2> Replace `<secret>` with the name used for the secret in the previous step.

. Examine the `apiserver/cluster` object and confirm the secret is now
referenced.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get apiserver cluster -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
...
spec:
  servingCerts:
    namedCertificates:
    - names:
      - <FQDN>
      servingCertificate:
        name: <secret>
...
----

. Verify that the new certificate is in place.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ curl -kv https://api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain> 2>&1 | grep -A5 -i "server certificate"
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
* Server certificate:
* 	subject: CN=api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>
* 	start date: Aug 07 03:00:01 2023 GMT
* 	expire date: Aug 06 03:00:01 2025 GMT
* 	common name: api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>
* 	issuer: CN=Company Root CA Issuer
----

. Verify that `kube-apiserver` operator is healthy and not degraded. 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get clusteroperators kube-apiserver
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----

> NAME             VERSION   AVAILABLE   PROGRESSING   DEGRADED   SINCE

Reviewer 2: missed one `MESSAGE` here, Currently, the output looks like this.
```
NAME                                       VERSION                              AVAILABLE   PROGRESSING   DEGRADED   SINCE   MESSAGE
    authentication                             4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      6m31s   
    baremetal                                  4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h9m    
    cloud-controller-manager                   4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h11m   
    cloud-credential                           4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h11m   
    cluster-autoscaler                         4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h9m    
    config-operator                            4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h9m    
    console                                    4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      44m     
    control-plane-machine-set                  4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      57s     
    csi-snapshot-controller                    4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h9m    
    dns                                        4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h8m    
    etcd                                       4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h7m    
    image-registry                             4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      173m    
    ingress                                    4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      173m    
    insights                                   4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h3m    
    kube-apiserver                             4.15.0-0.nightly-2023-12-09-012410   True        False         False      4h6m    
...
```

Author: What a message is missed? Sorry, I don't understand the comment. Could you please elaborate? I did the command `oc get clusteroperators kube-apiserver` on my `4.14` and it works as expected.

Also on my `4.15` it is as expected:

~~~
# oc get clusteroperators kube-apiserver

NAME             VERSION                              AVAILABLE   PROGRESSING   DEGRADED   SINCE   MESSAGE
kube-apiserver   4.15.0-0.nightly-2024-01-25-051548   True        False         False      9m24s   
~~~

Reviewer 2: Sorry, made you misunderstand, currently,  4.15 has one more column `MESSAGE` in header of the output, before this release, there is no this column.
4.15
```
NAME             VERSION                              AVAILABLE   PROGRESSING   DEGRADED   SINCE   MESSAGE
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/certificates/api-server.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="customize-certificates-api-update-named_{context}"]

> = Update an API server named certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Updating an API server named certificate
```
I see that the procedure above it has "Add" instead of "Adding", but it should be the gerund form, so please use "Updating" here.

There are a few other things I'll point out that I can see are "wrong" in the other module, but I can clean that up another time (and I'll also leave a few things alone and clean up in both places another time)

> Updating the API server certificate to new version requires only a creation of a new secret and updating the `apiserver`.

Reviewer: Recommend rewording a bit

```suggestion
You can update the API server certificate to a new version by creating a new secret and updating the API server.
```

.Procedure

> . Login to the API as the `kubeadmin` user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to the API as the `kubeadmin` user.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login -u kubeadmin -p <password> https://FQDN:6443
----

> . Create a secret with new name that contains the certificate chain and private key in the `openshift-config` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a secret with a new name in the openshift-config` namespace that contains the certificate chain and private key.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret tls <secret> \//<1>
     --cert=</path/to/cert.crt> \//<2>
     --key=</path/to/cert.key> \//<3>
     -n openshift-config
----
<1> `<secret>` is the name of the secret that will contain the certificate chain and private key.
<2> `</path/to/cert.crt>` is the path to the certificate chain on your local file system.
<3> `</path/to/cert.key>` is the path to the private key associated with this certificate.
+
[NOTE]
====

> Do not overwrite or delete the previous secret. Create a secret with a new name, for example `api-certs-<date>`. In case of the rollback, you can just switch back to the original secret name in the `apiserver/cluster`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not overwrite or delete the previous secret. Create a secret with a new name, for example `api-certs-<date>`. If you have to roll back, you can switch back to using the original secret.
```

====

> . Update the API server to reference the created secret with new API certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Update the API server to reference the secret with new API certificate.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch apiserver cluster \
     --type=merge -p \
     '{"spec":{"servingCerts": {"namedCertificates":
     [{"names": ["<FQDN>"], //<1>
     "servingCertificate": {"name": "<secret>"}}]}}}' <2>
----
<1> Replace `<FQDN>` with the FQDN that the API server should provide the certificate for.
<2> Replace `<secret>` with the name used for the secret in the previous step.

. Examine the `apiserver/cluster` object and confirm the secret is now
referenced.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get apiserver cluster -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
...
spec:
  servingCerts:
    namedCertificates:
    - names:
      - <FQDN>
      servingCertificate:
        name: <secret>
...
----

. Verify that the new certificate is in place.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ curl -kv https://api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain> 2>&1 | grep -A4 -i "server certificate"

Reviewer: Can you add some example output of what the user should expect to see, to know that it is in place?

Author: Added, please PTAL

Reviewer: LGTM thanks!
